docs/doxygen/markdown/08_napkin.md, before:

Napkin {#napkin}
=======================
*	[What Is Napkin](@ref what_is_napkin)
*	[Launching Napkin](@ref launching_napkin)
*	[General Structure](@ref napkin_structure)
	* 	[Document Management](@ref napkin_doc_management)
	*	[Resource Management](@ref napkin_res_management)
		*	[Create Resource](@ref new_resource)
		*	[Edit Resource](@ref edit_resource_props)
		*	[Create Entity](@ref new_entity)
		*	[Add Component](@ref new_component)
		*	[Add Entity to Scene](@ref add_entity)
		*	[Delete Entity from Scene](@ref delete_entity)
		*	[Override Instance Property](@ref in_prop_override)
		*	[Remove Instance Property Override](@ref in_prop_remove)
*	[Panels](@ref napkin_panels)
	* [Resources](@ref napkin_resources)
	* [Scene](@ref napkin_scene)
	* [Apprunner](@ref napkin_apprunner)
	* [Inspector](@ref napkin_inspector)
	* [Log](@ref napkin_log)
	* [Instance Properties](@ref instance_properties)

What is Napkin? {#what_is_napkin}
=======================

NAP's main storage format is JSON, which we consider to be quite a readable format. But as projects get larger, it helps to have a more ergonomical view on the data you are managing. Napkin is our JSON file editor that allows you to change your JSON files in a more visual manner. Fire up Napkin, launch your NAP application (from within or outside of the editor) and edit your data to see your changes reflected in the running application upon every save. This way you can get near-realtime feedback from even the most invasive structural changes in your app. Take note that the data files work cross platform and can be shared between Windows, macOS and Linux.

![](@ref content/napkin.png)

### Terminology
The following jargon will be used in this document:
	- `File > New` A menu item called *New* in the menu *File* in the menu bar at the top of the window or your screen
	- `LMB` Click left mouse button
	- `RMB` Click right mouse button
	- `CTRL + X` Press the *X* key while holding *CTRL* (on Windows) or *CMD* (the curly symbol on Mac)

Launching Napkin {#launching_napkin}
=======================

When you build a project Napkin is deployed alongside the project binary within the project's `bin` folder.<br>

For example: If you have a project titled 'NewProject' and perform a debug build, Napkin will be deployed into the folder:
- `projects/newproject/bin/Clang-x86_64-Debug`

Naturally `Clang-x86_64-Debug` will vary depending on your platform)<br>.

Napkin is also included with packaged projects, in that case it will sit in the root of the created release. See [Project Management](@ref project_management) for further details, including how to disable including Napkin in packaged projects. When launched for the first time within a certain directory Napkin uses the default NAP theme and layout. 

General Structure {#napkin_structure}
=======================

NAP Projects consist mainly of an executable, one or more JSON files and a collection of assets such as images, sound, 3D models, etc. <br> Napkin runs mostly on the same code as your application, this ensures a solid consistency between what is shown in the editor and your application. 

Document Management {#napkin_doc_management}
-----------------------

To make a new file: 
- `File > New` or `CTRL + N` creates an empty document.<br> 

To open an existing file:
- `File > Open` or `CTRL+O` opens an existing document.<br>

Napkin can edit one file at a time, but you're free to open as many editors as you want.

Resource Management {#napkin_res_management}
-----------------------

A document contains [Resources](@ref resources) and [Entities](@ref scene_overview).<br> 
When an entity is placed in a [Scene](@ref scene_setup) it is instantiated (created) at startup of your application.

### Create Resource {#new_resource} ###
- In the Resources panel, `RMB` on `Entities` and choose `Resources`.
- Select a resource from the list of available resources.
- Double `LMB` on the newly created resource to change it's name.
- Select the newly created resource to edit it's properties.

### Edit Resource {#edit_resource_props} ###
- Select a resource in the Resources panel.
- Edit it's properties in the Inspector panel.
 
### Create Entity {#new_entity} ###
- In the Resources panel, `RMB` on `Entities` and choose `Entity`.<br>
- Double `LMB` on the newly created entity to change it's name.<br> 
- You can delete the Entity by using `RMB` and choosing `Delete`.<br>

### Add Component {#new_component} ###
- `RMB` on your entity and choose `Add Component`. <br> 
- Pick the component from the list of available components.<br> 
- Which Component types are exposed depends on which modules are loaded.<br>

### Add Entity to Scene {#add_entity} ###
- In the resources Panel: Ensure there is at least 1 scene available.
	- Otherwise create one.
- In the Scene panel: `RMB` on a scene and choose `Add Entity...`.<br> 
- Pick an entity from the list of available entities.<br> 

### Delete Entity from Scene {#delete_entity} ###
- In the Scene panel: `RMB` on an entity and select `Delete Instance`.

### Override Instance Property {#in_prop_override} ###
- In the Scene panel: Select the Component.
- Edit the properties of the selected Component in the Inspector panel.

### Remove Instance Property Override {#in_prop_remove} ###
- In the Scene panel: Select the Component.
- In the Inspector panel: `RMB` on the propery to clear.
- Select `Remove override`

Note that an empty (`new`) file does not contain a Scene by default. Create a `Scene` Resource (following the steps above) to add one. Once the scene is created it is directly available for edit.

Panels {#napkin_panels}
=======================

Napkin consists of several dockable panels that you can arrange yourself.<br>
All panels showing lists of items that can be filtered by name, type or value from the textinput at the top.

Resources {#napkin_resources}
-----------------------

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-resources.png)
Shows all the Resources that are part of your application. Select an item to edit it's properties.
Every resource is created when the document is loaded. Only entities that have been added to the scene are [instantiated](@ref resources_instances).
 
Scene {#napkin_scene}
-----------------------

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-scene.png)
Shows the entities that will be instantiated when the document is loaded. You can add the same entity to a scene multiple times. <br>

AppRunner {#napkin_apprunner}
-----------------------

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-apprunner.png)

Allows you to start / stop the application you are working on. 

- Click on the `...` button to browse to the executable.

If your application logs object names in the proper format, you can double-click log messages with that link in the log panel and it will highlight the appropriate object/property in the editor.  
 
Curve {#napkin_curveeditor}
-----------------------
![](@ref content/napkin-panel-curve.png)
The  Curve panel allows for visual editing of a function curve.<br>

- Select a FloatFCurve resource in the resource panel.
- Open the Curve panel and start editing.

Controls:
- `LMB` on curve points or tangent handles to select them
- `SHIFT + LMB` on curve points to add them to the selection
- `CTRL + LMB` add a point on the curve at the clicked location
- `LMB + drag` in the background to rubberband select point handles or tangent handles
- `ALT + MMB` pan the view
- `ALT + RMB` zoom the view horizontally
- `SHIFT + RMB` zoom the view vertically
- `SHIFT + ALT + RMB` zoom the view both vertically and horizontally
- `F` to frame the selected handles inside the view (if no handles are selected, frame all)
- `A` to frame the entire curve inside the view
- Use the buttons in the toolbar or `RMB` in the curve view to change the interpolation of segments.
- Tangent handles can be "broken" for discontinuous curves or "aligned" for c2 continuous curves.

Because of the one-dimensional evaluation nature of function curves, the editor will keep you from creating curves with "overhang" (ie. curves that have multiple solutions). In order to do so, the effective distance of the tangent handles will be limited.   
 
Inspector {#napkin_inspector}
-----------------------

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-inspector.png)
This panel shows the **properties** for the currently selected object.<br>
- If an object is selected in the `Resources` panel you are editing the default (shared) properties
- If an object is selected in the `Scene` panel you are editing unique instance properties

Most properties are changed by typing in a new value in the `value` column. Some values like `Pointers` provide a button next to the field that allows you to select the target object. File properties have their own button that shows a file selection dialog in which you can select the file. 

Log {#napkin_log}
-----------------------

Shows Napkin related messages. If you're [running your application from Napkin](@ref napkin_apprunner) the output will be shown in this window too.
![](@ref content/napkin-panel-log.png)

Each message has a Log Level attached that will indicate its severity:
	- `fine` and `debug` messages are usually not that interesting and will not be shown by default, they're mostly for figuring out the more specific details of your application and the editor.<br>
	- `info` messages communicate a notable state change in the editor or your application.
	- `warning` indicates you should probably look what is being said.
	- `fatal` means something is not right and are very useful for discovering why something doesn't work.

Use the filter to find specific messages.<br> 
The dropdown on the top-right of this panel allows you to show or hide messages based on their level, in order of importance. `warning` is more important than `debug`.<br>
If a message pops up that has been underlined, you can double `RMB` it to reveal the object or property that message is saying something about.

Instance Properties {#instance_properties}
-----------------------
Shows all component instance property overrides.
![](@ref content/napkin-panel-instance-props.png)

Napkin allows you to edit resource properties and instance properties. Instance properties are unique per instance where resource properties are shared by all instances. Only properties of a component can be overridden per instance because a component is instantiated, together with the entity the component belongs to. Select a resource in the resource panel to edit shared properties. Select a component in the scene panel to edit unique properties. 

You can view all the overridden properties in the 'Instance Properties' panel.

Loaded Modules
-----------------------
Shows all currently loaded modules by Napkin.

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-modules.png)

The modules expose all available components and resources to Napkin and the running application.

Commit message:

- adjusting napkin documentation, now considers project.json

docs/doxygen/markdown/08_napkin.md, after:

Napkin {#napkin}
=======================
*	[What Is Napkin](@ref what_is_napkin)
*	[Launching Napkin](@ref launching_napkin)
*	[General Structure](@ref napkin_structure)
	*	[Opening a Project](@ref napkin_project_management)
	* 	[Document Management](@ref napkin_doc_management)
	*	[Resource Management](@ref napkin_res_management)
		*	[Create Resource](@ref new_resource)
		*	[Edit Resource](@ref edit_resource_props)
		*	[Create Entity](@ref new_entity)
		*	[Add Component](@ref new_component)
		*	[Add Entity to Scene](@ref add_entity)
		*	[Delete Entity from Scene](@ref delete_entity)
		*	[Override Instance Property](@ref in_prop_override)
		*	[Remove Instance Property Override](@ref in_prop_remove)
*	[Panels](@ref napkin_panels)
	* [Resources](@ref napkin_resources)
	* [Scene](@ref napkin_scene)
	* [Apprunner](@ref napkin_apprunner)
	* [Inspector](@ref napkin_inspector)
	* [Log](@ref napkin_log)
	* [Instance Properties](@ref instance_properties)

What is Napkin? {#what_is_napkin}
=======================

Napkin allows you to change your application data files in a more visual manner. NAP's main storage format is JSON, which we consider to be quite a readable format. But as projects get larger, it helps to have a more ergonomical view on the data you are creating. Fire up Napkin, launch your NAP application (from within or outside of the editor) and edit your data to see your changes reflected in real time every save. This way you can get near-realtime feedback from even the most invasive structural changes in your app. Take note that the data files work cross platform and can be shared between Windows, macOS and Linux.

![](@ref content/napkin.png)

### Terminology
The following jargon will be used in this document:
	- `File > New` A menu item called *New* in the menu *File* in the menu bar at the top of the window or your screen
	- `LMB` Click left mouse button
	- `RMB` Click right mouse button
	- `CTRL + X` Press the *X* key while holding *CTRL* (on Windows) or *CMD* (the curly symbol on Mac)

Launching Napkin {#launching_napkin}
=======================

After downloading and extracting the NAP package, you can find Napkin inside the `tools/napkin` directory. When building Napkin from source it will be placed in the `binary` output directory, inside a folder called `napkin`. Napkin is also included with packaged projects. This allows others to edit application content after compilation.

See [Project Management](@ref project_management) for further details, including how to disable including Napkin in packaged projects. 

General Structure {#napkin_structure}
=======================

Napkin allows you to create and edit application content, associated with a specific NAP project. Content is stored in a `myapp.json` file, which is referenced by the `project.json file.` Both the NAP application and Napkin use the project information to resolve dependencies, load modules into memory and inspect / create resources. Napkin and the application therefore 'share' the same code base. If you adjust a Resource in code, Napkin will reflect those changes in the editor.

Opening a Project {#napkin_project_management}
-----------------------

To open a project:
- `File > Open Project` or `CTRL + O`<br>

Use the file browser to select the project you want to load. The project is a `.json` file with the name: `project.json`. 

Inside `project.json` there's a `nap::ProjectInfo` structure that points to a `Data` file. This is the file Napkin will load after successfully loading the project. 

Before Napkin can load the file it will attempt to load all the `RequiredModules`. Every module has it's own set of dependencies, which will be resolved as well. If loading succeeds, Napkin can safely create and edit files because it can access all the resources exposed by the modules. You can safely launch multiple instances of Napkin to work on multiple projects at once.

Document Management {#napkin_doc_management}
-----------------------

To save the data file:
- `File > Save` or `CTRL + S` <br>

To save thedata  file with a different name:
- `File > Save as...`

To make a new data file: 
- `File > New` or `CTRL + N` creates an empty document.<br> 

Resource Management {#napkin_res_management}
-----------------------

A document contains [Resources](@ref resources) and [Entities](@ref scene_overview).<br> 
When an entity is placed in a [Scene](@ref scene_setup) it is instantiated (created) at startup of your application.

### Create Resource {#new_resource} ###
- In the Resources panel, `RMB` on `Entities` and choose `Resources`.
- Select a resource from the list of available resources.
- Double `LMB` on the newly created resource to change it's name.
- Select the newly created resource to edit it's properties.

### Edit Resource {#edit_resource_props} ###
- Select a resource in the Resources panel.
- Edit it's properties in the Inspector panel.
 
### Create Entity {#new_entity} ###
- In the Resources panel, `RMB` on `Entities` and choose `Entity`.<br>
- Double `LMB` on the newly created entity to change it's name.<br> 
- You can delete the Entity by using `RMB` and choosing `Delete`.<br>

### Add Component {#new_component} ###
- `RMB` on your entity and choose `Add Component`. <br> 
- Pick the component from the list of available components.<br> 
- Which Component types are exposed depends on which modules are loaded.<br>

### Add Entity to Scene {#add_entity} ###
- In the resources Panel: Ensure there is at least 1 scene available.
	- Otherwise create one.
- In the Scene panel: `RMB` on a scene and choose `Add Entity...`.<br> 
- Pick an entity from the list of available entities.<br> 

### Delete Entity from Scene {#delete_entity} ###
- In the Scene panel: `RMB` on an entity and select `Delete Instance`.

### Override Instance Property {#in_prop_override} ###
- In the Scene panel: Select the Component.
- Edit the properties of the selected Component in the Inspector panel.

### Remove Instance Property Override {#in_prop_remove} ###
- In the Scene panel: Select the Component.
- In the Inspector panel: `RMB` on the propery to clear.
- Select `Remove override`

Note that an empty (`new`) file does not contain a Scene by default. Create a `Scene` Resource (following the steps above) to add one. Once the scene is created it is directly available for edit.

Panels {#napkin_panels}
=======================

Napkin consists of several dockable panels that you can arrange yourself.<br>
All panels showing lists of items that can be filtered by name, type or value from the textinput at the top.

Resources {#napkin_resources}
-----------------------

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-resources.png)
Shows all the Resources that are part of your application. Select an item to edit it's properties.
Every resource is created when the document is loaded. Only entities that have been added to the scene are [instantiated](@ref resources_instances).
 
Scene {#napkin_scene}
-----------------------

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-scene.png)
Shows the entities that will be instantiated when the document is loaded. You can add the same entity to a scene multiple times. <br>

AppRunner {#napkin_apprunner}
-----------------------

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-apprunner.png)

Allows you to start / stop the application you are working on. 

- Click on the `...` button to browse to the executable.

If your application logs object names in the proper format, you can double-click log messages with that link in the log panel and it will highlight the appropriate object/property in the editor.  
 
Curve {#napkin_curveeditor}
-----------------------
![](@ref content/napkin-panel-curve.png)
The  Curve panel allows for visual editing of a function curve.<br>

- Select a FloatFCurve resource in the resource panel.
- Open the Curve panel and start editing.

Controls:
- `LMB` on curve points or tangent handles to select them
- `SHIFT + LMB` on curve points to add them to the selection
- `CTRL + LMB` add a point on the curve at the clicked location
- `LMB + drag` in the background to rubberband select point handles or tangent handles
- `ALT + MMB` pan the view
- `ALT + RMB` zoom the view horizontally
- `SHIFT + RMB` zoom the view vertically
- `SHIFT + ALT + RMB` zoom the view both vertically and horizontally
- `F` to frame the selected handles inside the view (if no handles are selected, frame all)
- `A` to frame the entire curve inside the view
- Use the buttons in the toolbar or `RMB` in the curve view to change the interpolation of segments.
- Tangent handles can be "broken" for discontinuous curves or "aligned" for c2 continuous curves.

Because of the one-dimensional evaluation nature of function curves, the editor will keep you from creating curves with "overhang" (ie. curves that have multiple solutions). In order to do so, the effective distance of the tangent handles will be limited.   
 
Inspector {#napkin_inspector}
-----------------------

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-inspector.png)
This panel shows the **properties** for the currently selected object.<br>
- If an object is selected in the `Resources` panel you are editing the default (shared) properties
- If an object is selected in the `Scene` panel you are editing unique instance properties

Most properties are changed by typing in a new value in the `value` column. Some values like `Pointers` provide a button next to the field that allows you to select the target object. File properties have their own button that shows a file selection dialog in which you can select the file. 

Log {#napkin_log}
-----------------------

Shows Napkin related messages. If you're [running your application from Napkin](@ref napkin_apprunner) the output will be shown in this window too.
![](@ref content/napkin-panel-log.png)

Each message has a Log Level attached that will indicate its severity:
	- `fine` and `debug` messages are usually not that interesting and will not be shown by default, they're mostly for figuring out the more specific details of your application and the editor.<br>
	- `info` messages communicate a notable state change in the editor or your application.
	- `warning` indicates you should probably look what is being said.
	- `fatal` means something is not right and are very useful for discovering why something doesn't work.

Use the filter to find specific messages.<br> 
The dropdown on the top-right of this panel allows you to show or hide messages based on their level, in order of importance. `warning` is more important than `debug`.<br>
If a message pops up that has been underlined, you can double `RMB` it to reveal the object or property that message is saying something about.

Instance Properties {#instance_properties}
-----------------------
Shows all component instance property overrides.
![](@ref content/napkin-panel-instance-props.png)

Napkin allows you to edit resource properties and instance properties. Instance properties are unique per instance where resource properties are shared by all instances. Only properties of a component can be overridden per instance because a component is instantiated, together with the entity the component belongs to. Select a resource in the resource panel to edit shared properties. Select a component in the scene panel to edit unique properties. 

You can view all the overridden properties in the 'Instance Properties' panel.

Loaded Modules
-----------------------
Shows all currently loaded modules by Napkin.

![](@ref content/napkin-panel-modules.png)

The modules expose all available components and resources to Napkin and the running application.
